README.md, before:

# Bump cli

<p align="center">
  <img width="20%" src="https://bump.sh/icon-default-large.png" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://help.bump.sh/">Help</a> |
  <a href="https://bump.sh/users/sign_up">Sign up</a>
</p>

The Bump CLI is used to interact with your API documentation hosted on Bump by using the API of [developers.bump.sh](https://developers.bump.sh). It is built with [`oclif`](https://oclif.io) in Typescript.

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bump-cli.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/bump-cli)
[![Tests](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/actions/workflows/checks.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/actions/workflows/checks.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/bump-cli.svg)](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/blob/master/package.json)

## Table of contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Commands](#commands)
* [Development](#development)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Versioning](#versioning)

## Installation

Bump is installed via npm. Run this command to install it for local use:

```sh-session
npm install -g bump-cli
```

_If you are looking to use Bump in a continuous integration environment you might be interested by [our Github Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/api-documentation-on-bump)._

### How should I do if I'm not using npm ?

Unfortunately, at the moment we only publish a npm package. However we plan to distribute universal binaries in the most common package managers soon.

## Usage

```sh-session
$ npm install -g bump-cli

$ bump --help
The Bump CLI is used to interact with your API documentation hosted on Bump by using the API of developers.bump.sh

VERSION
  bump-cli/2.0.0 linux-x64 node-v15.12.0

USAGE
  $ bump [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  deploy   create a new version of your documentation from the given file or URL
  help     display help for bump
  preview  create a documentation preview from the given file or URL
```

## Commands

* [`bump preview [FILE]`](#bump-preview-file)
* [`bump deploy [FILE]`](#bump-deploy-file)

### `bump preview [FILE]`

You can preview your documentation by calling the `preview` command. A temporary preview will be created with a unique URL. This preview will be available for 30 minutes. You don't need any credentials to use this command.

```
USAGE
  $ bump preview FILE

ARGUMENTS
  FILE  Path or URL to your API documentation file. OpenAPI (2.0 to 3.1.0) and AsyncAPI (2.0)
        specifications are currently supported.

EXAMPLE
  $ bump preview my-api-file.json
  * Your preview is visible at: https://bump.sh/preview/45807371-9a32-48a7-b6e4-1cb7088b5b9b
```

### `bump deploy [FILE]`

Deploy the definition file as the current version of the documentation with the following command:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --doc DOC_ID_OR_SLUG --token DOC_TOKEN
```

If you already have a hub in your [Bump.sh](https://bump.sh) account, you can automatically create a documentation inside it and deploy to it with:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --auto-create --doc DOC_SLUG --hub HUB_ID_OR_SLUG --token HUB_TOKEN
```

Simulate a deployment of your definition file to make sure it is valid with the `--dry-run` flag, it is particularly useful in a Continuous Integration environment running a test deployment outside your main branch:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --dry-run --doc DOC_ID_OR_SLUG --token DOC_TOKEN
```

Please check `bump deploy --help` for more usage details

## Development

Make sure to have Node.js (At least v10) installed on your machine.

- Install node dependencies with
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm install
  ```
  
- Compile the Typescript code
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run build
  $ npm run clean # to remove build artifacts
  ```
  
- Format the codebase to comply with the linter rules
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run fmt
  ```
  
- Run the test suites
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run test
  $ npm run test-coverage # Run tests with coverage
  ```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/bump-sh/cli. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

### License

The node package is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

### Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Bump-CLI project codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/bump-sh/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Versioning

This npm package starts at v2.0.0 for two main reasons:

- Our [first version](https://github.com/bump-sh/bump-cli) of the Bump CLI was written in Ruby, starting at v2.0.0 makes it clear we are working on our second version of the Bump CLI

- The `bump-cli` package used to be [owned by Rico](https://github.com/rstacruz) which already published v1.x packages. If you are looking for the old npm package please head to [`@rstacruz/bump-cli` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rstacruz/bump-cli). _A big thanks to Rico for transfering the ownership of the `bump-cli` package name!_

Commit message:

preview: add a flag to open the URL in a browser directly
This is a small addition to help open up a preview directly in your
browser.

README.md, after:

# Bump cli

<p align="center">
  <img width="20%" src="https://bump.sh/icon-default-large.png" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://help.bump.sh/">Help</a> |
  <a href="https://bump.sh/users/sign_up">Sign up</a>
</p>

The Bump CLI is used to interact with your API documentation hosted on Bump by using the API of [developers.bump.sh](https://developers.bump.sh). It is built with [`oclif`](https://oclif.io) in Typescript.

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bump-cli.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/bump-cli)
[![Tests](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/actions/workflows/checks.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/actions/workflows/checks.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/bump-cli.svg)](https://github.com/bump-sh/cli/blob/master/package.json)

## Table of contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Commands](#commands)
* [Development](#development)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Versioning](#versioning)

## Installation

Bump is installed via npm. Run this command to install it for local use:

```sh-session
npm install -g bump-cli
```

_If you are looking to use Bump in a continuous integration environment you might be interested by [our Github Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/api-documentation-on-bump)._

### How should I do if I'm not using npm ?

Unfortunately, at the moment we only publish a npm package. However we plan to distribute universal binaries in the most common package managers soon.

## Usage

```sh-session
$ npm install -g bump-cli

$ bump --help
The Bump CLI is used to interact with your API documentation hosted on Bump by using the API of developers.bump.sh

VERSION
  bump-cli/2.0.0 linux-x64 node-v15.12.0

USAGE
  $ bump [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  deploy   create a new version of your documentation from the given file or URL
  help     display help for bump
  preview  create a documentation preview from the given file or URL
```

## Commands

* [`bump preview [FILE]`](#bump-preview-file)
* [`bump deploy [FILE]`](#bump-deploy-file)

### `bump preview [FILE]`

You can preview your documentation by calling the `preview` command. A temporary preview will be created with a unique URL. This preview will be available for 30 minutes. You don't need any credentials to use this command.

```
USAGE
  $ bump preview FILE

ARGUMENTS
  FILE  Path or URL to your API documentation file. OpenAPI (2.0 to 3.1.0) and AsyncAPI (2.0)
        specifications are currently supported.

OPTIONS
  -o, --open  Open the generated preview URL in your browser

EXAMPLE
  $ bump preview FILE
  * Your preview is visible at: https://bump.sh/preview/45807371-9a32-48a7-b6e4-1cb7088b5b9b
```

### `bump deploy [FILE]`

Deploy the definition file as the current version of the documentation with the following command:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --doc DOC_ID_OR_SLUG --token DOC_TOKEN
```

If you already have a hub in your [Bump.sh](https://bump.sh) account, you can automatically create a documentation inside it and deploy to it with:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --auto-create --doc DOC_SLUG --hub HUB_ID_OR_SLUG --token HUB_TOKEN
```

Simulate a deployment of your definition file to make sure it is valid with the `--dry-run` flag, it is particularly useful in a Continuous Integration environment running a test deployment outside your main branch:

```sh-session
$ bump deploy path/to/your/file.yml --dry-run --doc DOC_ID_OR_SLUG --token DOC_TOKEN
```

Please check `bump deploy --help` for more usage details

## Development

Make sure to have Node.js (At least v10) installed on your machine.

- Install node dependencies with
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm install
  ```
  
- Compile the Typescript code
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run build
  $ npm run clean # to remove build artifacts
  ```
  
- Format the codebase to comply with the linter rules
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run fmt
  ```
  
- Run the test suites
  
  ```sh-session
  $ npm run test
  $ npm run test-coverage # Run tests with coverage
  ```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/bump-sh/cli. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

### License

The node package is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

### Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Bump-CLI project codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/bump-sh/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Versioning

This npm package starts at v2.0.0 for two main reasons:

- Our [first version](https://github.com/bump-sh/bump-cli) of the Bump CLI was written in Ruby, starting at v2.0.0 makes it clear we are working on our second version of the Bump CLI

- The `bump-cli` package used to be [owned by Rico](https://github.com/rstacruz) which already published v1.x packages. If you are looking for the old npm package please head to [`@rstacruz/bump-cli` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@rstacruz/bump-cli). _A big thanks to Rico for transfering the ownership of the `bump-cli` package name!_
